[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: Write a collect function
that takes a generator and an array and
produces a function that will
collect the results in the array.
So, we're gonna make a generator
that works like the NSA.
It's going to spy on a function and
record everything interesting
that that function returns, okay?
First, we'll set up the empty array
where collect is gonna keep its stuff,
then we'll call collect,
passing it any generator and that array,
and it will return a generator, which will
work exactly like the first generator,
except it will record everything that
it returns except for undefined.
>> Douglas: So, we can call
that generator a few times, and
then we can look at what's in the array
and it will have captured those values.
So, here is collect,
collect takes a generator and
an array that returns a function that
gets the next value from the generator.
If the value is not undefined,
it pushes it on to the end of the array
in either case it will return the value.
So, who got something that works?
[LAUGH] So close?
Anybody do something interesting?
>> Speaker 2: Can you just return
array.push value instead of having
the return value outside of the u?
>> Douglas: I don't recall what
it is that array.push returns.
I think it might be an updated
length of the array.
Does anyone know?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, it sounds right.
>> Douglas: Yeah, so unfortunately
array.push isn't smart enough to do that.
Anybody else,
we’re going onto the next one?
Write a filter function that takes
a generator and a predicate.
A predicate is a function that
returns a boolean true or false and
produces a generator that produces only
the values approved by the predicate.
So, in this case, we're going to be
filtering using the third function.
The third function will
return true only if
Its argument is divisible by 3,
so we'll use that to select
factors of 3 from the sequence
given by the generator.
So we'll have the fromTo
generator going to (0, 5), and
the third function, and
it will return (0, 3) and then undefined.
>> Speaker 4: So, you're asking,
if I call this sequentially, five times,
I should only get zero,
a three, or an undefined?
Those arent the first three
results I should get.
>> Douglas: Those are the results.
>> Speaker 4: I call the three
times the results yourselves write.
>> Douglas: Okay, let's look at filter, so
did everybody figure out
they need to use a loop?
Yeah, that was a key to this one,
so very good.
We'll get to that, so
here's one way to write filter.
Well, first off,
who got something that works?
Very good, so filter takes a generator and
a predicate and
returns a function, which will stay
in a loop, calling the generator,
until it gets a value which
is approved by the predicate.
In which case it will drop
out in return the value, and
that's an acceptable way to do it.
Although in EF6, my most favorite
new feature in EF6 is going to
be tail recursion, or proper tail calls,
which would let us write it like this.
We're going to have a recursive
function that I'm calling recur, and
it will continue to call itself
until the predicate becomes true.
So, this is where it calls itself, and
the reason why this needs a new feature
in the language Is that, in ES6,
the compiler is required
to optimize that call.
So, instead of doing a call and
then a return,
it will do a jump back
to the recur function.
So, this function will
run in the same time and
same memory pressure as the earlier one.
At this point, there will no longer be an
advantage to using loops over recursion,
and that's great, so
I'm really looking forward to that.
Anybody else do a third approach or
any other?
>> Speaker 3: I think there should
be a way to use that [COUGH] pose
function that we wrote earlier,
calling a function on a function.
Well, we're not really calling a function
on a function, but it feels like we are.
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE] because
they're so used to Python.
You could, if you look back to it.
>> Douglas: Yeah,
confused for awhile there.
I actually think that we have
too many looping statements.
If it were just me, it would be a loop,
and that would be it.
You know, loop bracket, and
everything would happen in that.
Yeah, because I find, well,
I'm not using loops much anymore.
But, when I do, I tend to want
to break out of the middle, and
we've got a loop syntax,
which says will break out of the top,
will break out of the bottom, but
that's not usually where I'm going.
If I'm using a loop that
is that discipline,
I probably don't need
to use a loop at all.
Anybody else?
Okay, so shall we go on to another one?
Sure, why not?
Okay, so let's do one more,
this time we're going to concatenate
a couple of functions together.
So, write a concat function
that takes two generators and
produces a generator that
combines their sequences.
So, we're going to call concat, we're
going to pass it a generator, which is
from (2, 0) to 3, and from (2, 0) to 2,
and that will give us a new generator,
which will produce the sequence (0,
1), (2, 0), 1, and then undefined.
So, here's concat,
it takes two generator functions.
It has a variable to remember what
the current generator function is.
It returns a function which gets
a value from the current generator.
If a value is not undefined,
it returns it.
Otherwise it replaces the current
generator with the next generator and
returns a value from that.
So who got something that works for good.
Anyone take a different approach.
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE]
temporary generator.
>> Douglas: Because.
Next year, when we have the...
thing, then I want to write it this way.
Whereas I can take any
number of generators, and
I'm going to be using the element function
that we wrote earlier to help me step
through that array of generators,
and I'll just Load the next one in.
So that's why, I didn't mean to
show off but but that's why.
>> Speaker 2: What are the gens?
>> Speaker 4: Let's see
the previous slide.
>> Speaker 4: Layer returning
gen instead of value.
>> Douglas: returning the result
of calling gen
easy value as I see value it was G.M. and
if it doesn't succeed you're calling it a.
You know she just tends to just
get to the next generator.
Call it the call that each other
pretty tough assignment one
changes because it's the first
time three cause just one
second time three cause
your third time three cause you're passing
suppose you're one to the fourth time
three because Jack money gets under five
cents JANDA Gentoo returns a result
of Gentoo or we have a OK.
>> Speaker 4: Yet to return to tell
you I was expecting to return so
That's as well the next stuff.
>> Douglas: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: You said value equals gen2.
>> Douglas: Right.
I couldn't have done that
business inside of vf.
I could have reversed it.
>> Speaker 4: Okay, I gotcha you now.
>> Douglas: Yeah, right.
You think it would have been clearer
doing it that way?
>> Speaker 4: Well, I prefer to
have one return than two, I guess.
>> Douglas: I'll think about that.
>> Speaker 2: So,
when your next function your
>> Douglas: Then next.
>> Speaker 2: [COUGH]
What's element?
>> Douglas: Element is a function
we wrote this morning.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Douglas: You remember that.
>> Speaker 2: It pops off,
it pops off to the next.
>> Douglas: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Just pops.
>> Douglas: It returns
the next thing from an array.
>> Speaker 2: Not because of pop it.
>> Douglas: You should,
we did it twice
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, there it is.